{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9   ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND\par
\par
                          Lewis Carroll\par
\par
               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 3.0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                            CHAPTER I\par
\par
                      Down the Rabbit-Hole\par
\par
\par
  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister\par
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had\par
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no\par
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'\par
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'\par
\par
  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,\par
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether\par
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble\par
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White\par
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.\par
\par
  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice\par
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to\par
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought\par
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have\par
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);\par
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-\par
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to\par
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never\par
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to\par
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the\par
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop\par
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.\par
\par
  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once\par
considering how in the world she was to get out again.\par
\par
  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,\par
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a\par
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself\par
falling down a very deep well.\par
\par
  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she\par
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to\par
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look\par
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to\par
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and\par
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;\par
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She\par
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was\par
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it\par
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing\par
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she\par
fell past it.\par
\par
  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I\par
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll\par
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,\par
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely\par
true.)\par
\par
  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I\par
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.\par
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let\par
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,\par
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her\par
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good\par
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to\par
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,\par
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude\par
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,\par
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to\par
say.)\par
\par
  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right\par
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the\par
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I\par
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this\par
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall\par
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.\par
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried\par
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling\par
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what\par
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll\par
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'\par
\par
  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon\par
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I\par
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember\par
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were\par
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but\par
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.\par
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get\par
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of\par
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do\par
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either\par
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt\par
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she\par
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very\par
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a\par
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of\par
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.\par
\par
  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a\par
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her\par
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in\par
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:\par
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it\par
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late\par
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the\par
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found\par
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps\par
hanging from the roof.\par
\par
  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;\par
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the\par
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,\par
wondering how she was ever to get out again.\par
\par
  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of\par
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,\par
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the\par
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or\par
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of\par
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low\par
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little\par
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key\par
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!\par
\par
  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small\par
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and\par
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.\par
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about\par
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but\par
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if\par
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of\par
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish\par
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only\par
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things\par
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few\par
things indeed were really impossible.\par
\par
  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she\par
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on\par
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like\par
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which\par
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck\par
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'\par
beautifully printed on it in large letters.\par
\par
  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little\par
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look\par
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';\par
for she had read several nice little histories about children who\par
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant\par
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules\par
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker\par
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your\par
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had\par
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked\par
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or\par
later.\par
\par
  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured\par
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort\par
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast\par
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished\par
it off.\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
         *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up\par
like a telescope.'\par
\par
  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and\par
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right\par
size for going through the little door into that lovely garden.\par
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was\par
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about\par
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my\par
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be\par
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is\par
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember\par
ever having seen such a thing.\par
\par
  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided\par
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice!\par
when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the\par
little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it,\par
she found she could not possibly reach it:  she could see it\par
quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb\par
up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;\par
and when she had tired herself out with trying,\par
the poor little thing sat down and cried.\par
\par
  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to\par
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'\par
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very\par
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so\par
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered\par
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game\par
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious\par
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no\par
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,\par
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable\par
person!'\par
\par
  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under\par
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on\par
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.\par
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,\par
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep\par
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I\par
don't care which happens!'\par
\par
  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which\par
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to\par
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to\par
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally\par
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the\par
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,\par
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the\par
common way.\par
\par
  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
         *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER II\par
\par
                        The Pool of Tears\par
\par
\par
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much\par
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good\par
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that\par
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her\par
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so\par
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on\par
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't\par
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself\par
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be\par
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the\par
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of\par
boots every Christmas.'\par
\par
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.\par
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll\par
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the\par
directions will look!\par
\par
            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.\par
                HEARTHRUG,\par
                    NEAR THE FENDER,\par
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).\par
\par
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'\par
\par
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in\par
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took\par
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.\par
\par
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one\par
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get\par
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to\par
cry again.\par
\par
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great\par
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in\par
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all\par
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool\par
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the\par
hall.\par
\par
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the\par
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.\par
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a\par
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the\par
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to\par
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she\par
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate\par
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit\par
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,\par
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid\par
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard\par
as he could go.\par
\par
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very\par
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:\par
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday\par
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in\par
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this\par
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little\par
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in\par
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began\par
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age\par
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of\par
them.\par
\par
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such\par
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm\par
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,\par
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,\par
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the\par
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,\par
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!\par
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the\par
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.\par
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,\par
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been\par
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'\par
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,\par
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and\par
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--\par
\par
            `How doth the little crocodile\par
              Improve his shining tail,\par
            And pour the waters of the Nile\par
              On every golden scale!\par
\par
            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,\par
              How neatly spread his claws,\par
            And welcome little fishes in\par
              With gently smiling jaws!'\par
\par
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and\par
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel\par
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little\par
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so\par
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm\par
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their\par
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look\par
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I\par
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down\par
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a\par
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads\par
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'\par
\par
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was\par
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little\par
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done\par
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up\par
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,\par
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,\par
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the\par
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it\par
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.\par
\par
`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at\par
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in\par
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed\par
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut\par
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as\par
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,\par
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare\par
it's too bad, that it is!'\par
\par
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another\par
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first\par
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that\par
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had\par
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general\par
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find\par
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in\par
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and\par
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that\par
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine\par
feet high.\par
\par
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,\par
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I\par
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer\par
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'\par
\par
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a\par
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at\par
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then\par
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that\par
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.\par
\par
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this\par
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should\par
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in\par
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of\par
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'\par
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:\par
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having\par
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a\par
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!')  The Mouse looked at her rather\par
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little\par
eyes, but it said nothing.\par
\par
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I\par
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the\par
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had\par
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she\par
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in\par
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the\par
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg\par
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the\par
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'\par
\par
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate\par
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'\par
\par
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be\par
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:\par
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.\par
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,\par
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so\par
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and\par
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital\par
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,\par
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt\par
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any\par
more if you'd rather not.'\par
\par
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end\par
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family\par
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear\par
the name again!'\par
\par
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the\par
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'\par
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is\par
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!\par
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly\par
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and\par
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I\par
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you\par
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!\par
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a\par
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the\par
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and\par
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.\par
\par
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back\par
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't\par
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam\par
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice\par
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to\par
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll\par
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'\par
\par
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded\par
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a\par
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious\par
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the\par
shore.\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER III\par
\par
                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale\par
\par
\par
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the\par
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their\par
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and\par
uncomfortable.\par
\par
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they\par
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed\par
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with\par
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had\par
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,\par
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';\par
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,\par
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no\par
more to be said.\par
\par
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among\par
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL\par
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large\par
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes\par
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad\par
cold if she did not get dry very soon.\par
\par
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?\par
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!\par
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was\par
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been\par
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and\par
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'\par
\par
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.\par
\par
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very\par
politely:  `Did you speak?'\par
\par
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.\par
\par
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and\par
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:\par
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found\par
it advisable--"'\par
\par
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.\par
\par
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you\par
know what "it" means.'\par
\par
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said\par
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,\par
what did the archbishop find?'\par
\par
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,\par
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William\par
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was\par
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you\par
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it\par
spoke.\par
\par
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't\par
seem to dry me at all.'\par
\par
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I\par
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more\par
energetic remedies--'\par
\par
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of\par
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do\par
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:\par
some of the other birds tittered audibly.\par
\par
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,\par
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'\par
\par
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much\par
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY\par
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.\par
\par
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'\par
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter\par
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)\par
\par
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the\par
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party\par
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,\par
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,\par
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know\par
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half\par
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called\par
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,\par
and asking, `But who has won?'\par
\par
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of\par
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon\par
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,\par
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At\par
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have\par
prizes.'\par
\par
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices\par
asked.\par
\par
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with\par
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,\par
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'\par
\par
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand\par
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt\par
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.\par
There was exactly one a-piece all round.\par
\par
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.\par
\par
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have\par
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.\par
\par
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.\par
\par
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.\par
\par
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo\par
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of\par
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short\par
speech, they all cheered.\par
\par
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked\par
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not\par
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,\par
looking as solemn as she could.\par
\par
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise\par
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not\par
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on\par
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again\par
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.\par
\par
  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,\par
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half\par
afraid that it would be offended again.\par
\par
  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to\par
Alice, and sighing.\par
\par
  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with\par
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And\par
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so\par
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--\par
\par
                    `Fury said to a\par
                   mouse, That he\par
                 met in the\par
               house,\par
            "Let us\par
              both go to\par
                law:  I will\par
                  prosecute\par
                    YOU.  --Come,\par
                       I'll take no\par
                        denial; We\par
                     must have a\par
                 trial:  For\par
              really this\par
           morning I've\par
          nothing\par
         to do."\par
           Said the\par
             mouse to the\par
               cur, "Such\par
                 a trial,\par
                   dear Sir,\par
                         With\par
                     no jury\par
                  or judge,\par
                would be\par
              wasting\par
             our\par
              breath."\par
               "I'll be\par
                 judge, I'll\par
                   be jury,"\par
                         Said\par
                    cunning\par
                      old Fury:\par
                     "I'll\par
                      try the\par
                         whole\par
                          cause,\par
                             and\par
                        condemn\par
                       you\par
                      to\par
                       death."'\par
\par
\par
  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.\par
`What are you thinking of?'\par
\par
  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to\par
the fifth bend, I think?'\par
\par
  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.\par
\par
  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and\par
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'\par
\par
  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up\par
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'\par
\par
  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily\par
offended, you know!'\par
\par
  The Mouse only growled in reply.\par
\par
  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after\par
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but\par
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little\par
quicker.\par
\par
  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it\par
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of\par
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you\par
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the\par
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the\par
patience of an oyster!'\par
\par
  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,\par
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'\par
\par
  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'\par
said the Lory.\par
\par
  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about\par
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for\par
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her\par
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look\par
at it!'\par
\par
  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.\par
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one old Magpie began\par
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be\par
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary\par
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my\par
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts\par
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.\par
\par
  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a\par
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm\par
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I\par
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice\par
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.\par
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of\par
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping\par
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to\par
finish his story.\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER IV\par
\par
                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill\par
\par
\par
  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and\par
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;\par
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!\par
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me\par
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have\par
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was\par
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she\par
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were\par
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her\par
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and\par
the little door, had vanished completely.\par
\par
  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,\par
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE\par
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of\par
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened\par
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without\par
trying to explain the mistake it had made.\par
\par
  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.\par
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd\par
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'\par
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door\par
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'\par
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried\par
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,\par
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and\par
gloves.\par
\par
  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going\par
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on\par
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that\par
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready\par
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see\par
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went\par
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering\par
people about like that!'\par
\par
  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with\par
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two\par
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and\par
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when\par
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-\par
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'\par
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know\par
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,\par
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this\par
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for\par
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'\par
\par
  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:\par
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing\par
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being\par
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself\par
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I\par
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so\par
much!'\par
\par
  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and\par
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in\par
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried\par
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the\par
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,\par
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one\par
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,\par
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'\par
\par
  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full\par
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,\par
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting\par
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.\par
\par
  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one\par
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about\par
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that\par
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,\par
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!\par
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing\par
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There\par
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when\par
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a\par
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more\par
HERE.'\par
\par
  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I\par
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--\par
but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'\par
\par
  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you\par
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no\par
room at all for any lesson-books!'\par
\par
  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,\par
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few\par
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.\par
\par
  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves\par
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the\par
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and\par
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she\par
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no\par
reason to be afraid of it.\par
\par
  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;\par
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed\par
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it\par
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'\par
\par
  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she\par
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly\par
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not\par
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,\par
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was\par
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something\par
of the sort.\par
\par
  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are\par
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then\par
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'\par
\par
  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!\par
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)\par
\par
  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'\par
\par
  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')\par
\par
  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it\par
fills the whole window!'\par
\par
  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'\par
\par
  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it\par
away!'\par
\par
  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear\par
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer\par
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at\par
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in\par
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more\par
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there\par
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for\par
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I\par
don't want to stay in here any longer!'\par
\par
  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at\par
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a\par
good many voices all talking together:  she made out the words:\par
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;\par
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up\par
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half\par
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular--\par
Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind\par
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud\par
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go\par
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,\par
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to\par
go down the chimney!'\par
\par
  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said\par
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!\par
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is\par
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'\par
\par
  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and\par
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what\par
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close\par
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one\par
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.\par
\par
  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes\par
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the\par
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold\par
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?\par
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'\par
\par
  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'\par
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm\par
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know\par
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes\par
like a sky-rocket!'\par
\par
  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.\par
\par
  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and\par
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set\par
Dinah at you!'\par
\par
  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to\par
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any\par
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they\par
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A\par
barrowful will do, to begin with.'\par
\par
  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to\par
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came\par
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.\par
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,\par
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead\par
silence.\par
\par
  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all\par
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright\par
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she\par
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it\par
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I\par
suppose.'\par
\par
  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find\par
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small\par
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and\par
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.\par
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by\par
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.\par
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she\par
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a\par
thick wood.\par
\par
  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she\par
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;\par
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.\par
I think that will be the best plan.'\par
\par
  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and\par
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the\par
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering\par
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over\par
her head made her look up in a great hurry.\par
\par
  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round\par
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.\par
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried\par
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the\par
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it\par
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.\par
\par
  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of\par
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped\par
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,\par
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice\par
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run\par
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy\par
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in\par
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very\par
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every\par
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle\par
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the\par
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long\par
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat\par
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its\par
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.\par
\par
  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;\par
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out\par
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the\par
distance.\par
\par
  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she\par
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself\par
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks\par
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh\par
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let\par
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or\par
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'\par
\par
  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round\par
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see\par
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under\par
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,\par
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under\par
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her\par
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.\par
\par
  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of\par
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large\par
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,\par
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice\par
of her or of anything else.\par
\par
\par
\par
                            CHAPTER V\par
\par
                    Advice from a Caterpillar\par
\par
\par
  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in\par
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its\par
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.\par
\par
  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice\par
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--\par
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think\par
I must have been changed several times since then.'\par
\par
  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.\par
`Explain yourself!'\par
\par
  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because\par
I'm not myself, you see.'\par
\par
  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very\par
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and\par
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'\par
\par
  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but\par
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you\par
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll\par
feel it a little queer, won't you?'\par
\par
  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;\par
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'\par
\par
  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'\par
\par
  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the\par
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's\par
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,\par
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'\par
\par
  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not\par
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in\par
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.\par
\par
  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something\par
important to say!'\par
\par
  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back\par
again.\par
\par
  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as\par
she could.\par
\par
  `No,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else\par
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth\par
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but\par
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth\par
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'\par
\par
  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as\par
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'\par
\par
  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it\par
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.\par
\par
  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  Alice folded her hands, and began:--\par
\par
    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,\par
      `And your hair has become very white;\par
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--\par
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'\par
\par
    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,\par
      `I feared it might injure the brain;\par
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,\par
      Why, I do it again and again.'\par
\par
    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,\par
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;\par
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--\par
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'\par
\par
    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,\par
      `I kept all my limbs very supple\par
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--\par
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'\par
\par
    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak\par
      For anything tougher than suet;\par
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--\par
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'\par
\par
    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,\par
      And argued each case with my wife;\par
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,\par
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'\par
\par
    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose\par
      That your eye was as steady as ever;\par
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--\par
      What made you so awfully clever?'\par
\par
    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'\par
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!\par
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?\par
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'\par
\par
\par
  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the\par
words have got altered.'\par
\par
  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar\par
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.\par
\par
  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.\par
\par
  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.\par
\par
  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;\par
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'\par
\par
  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in\par
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.\par
\par
  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.\par
\par
  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you\par
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched\par
height to be.'\par
\par
  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar\par
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three\par
inches high).\par
\par
  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.\par
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so\par
easily offended!'\par
\par
  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it\par
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.\par
\par
  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.\par
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its\par
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got\par
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely\par
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and\par
the other side will make you grow shorter.'\par
\par
  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to\par
herself.\par
\par
  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had\par
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.\par
\par
  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a\par
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as\par
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.\par
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they\par
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.\par
\par
  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a\par
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment\par
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her\par
foot!\par
\par
  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but\par
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking\par
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.\par
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was\par
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and\par
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.\par
\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
         *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *\par
\par
  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of\par
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she\par
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could\par
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which\par
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay\par
far below her.\par
\par
  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where\par
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I\par
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no\par
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the\par
distant green leaves.\par
\par
  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her\par
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted\par
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,\par
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a\par
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which\par
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she\par
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a\par
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating\par
her violently with its wings.\par
\par
  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.\par
\par
  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'\par
\par
  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more\par
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every\par
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'\par
\par
  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said\par
Alice.\par
\par
  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've\par
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but\par
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'\par
\par
  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no\par
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.\par
\par
  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the\par
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and\par
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'\par
\par
  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was\par
beginning to see its meaning.\par
\par
  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued\par
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was\par
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come\par
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'\par
\par
  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm\par
a--'\par
\par
  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're\par
trying to invent something!'\par
\par
  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she\par
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.\par
\par
  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the\par
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my\par
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a\par
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be\par
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'\par
\par
  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very\par
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as\par
serpents do, you know.'\par
\par
  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why\par
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'\par
\par
  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent\par
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of\par
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and\par
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a\par
serpent?'\par
\par
  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm\par
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't\par
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'\par
\par
  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it\par
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the\par
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled\par
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and\par
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the\par
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very\par
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and\par
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had\par
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.\par
\par
  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,\par
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a\par
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,\par
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes\par
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to\par
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next\par
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be\par
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an\par
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.\par
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come\par
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their\par
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did\par
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself\par
down to nine inches high.\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER VI\par
\par
                         Pig and Pepper\par
\par
\par
  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and\par
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came\par
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman\par
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,\par
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door\par
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,\par
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,\par
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their\par
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and\par
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.\par
\par
  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great\par
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to\par
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An\par
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman\par
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the\par
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess\par
to play croquet.'\par
\par
  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled\par
together.\par
\par
  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into\par
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped\par
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the\par
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.\par
\par
  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.\par
\par
  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and\par
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the\par
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise\par
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was\par
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling\par
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish\par
or kettle had been broken to pieces.\par
\par
  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'\par
\par
  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went\par
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For\par
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let\par
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time\par
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But\par
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so\par
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might\par
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.\par
\par
  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'\par
\par
  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate\par
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just\par
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees\par
behind him.\par
\par
  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,\par
exactly as if nothing had happened.\par
\par
  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.\par
\par
  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the\par
first question, you know.'\par
\par
  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.\par
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the\par
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'\par
\par
  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for\par
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he\par
said, `on and off, for days and days.'\par
\par
  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.\par
\par
  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:\par
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.\par
\par
  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of\par
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a\par
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was\par
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to\par
be full of soup.\par
\par
  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to\par
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.\par
\par
  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the\par
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was\par
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The\par
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,\par
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from\par
ear to ear.\par
\par
  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for\par
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to\par
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'\par
\par
  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.  Pig!'\par
\par
  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice\par
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed\par
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on\par
again:--\par
\par
  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I\par
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'\par
\par
  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'\par
\par
  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,\par
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.\par
\par
  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'\par
\par
  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought\par
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of\par
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took\par
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work\par
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby\par
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,\par
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when\par
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it\par
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.\par
\par
  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up\par
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS\par
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very\par
nearly carried it off.\par
\par
  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a\par
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it\par
does.'\par
\par
  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very\par
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her\par
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day\par
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn\par
round on its axis--'\par
\par
  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'\par
\par
  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant\par
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and\par
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four\par
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'\par
\par
  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide\par
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,\par
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a\par
violent shake at the end of every line:\par
\par
        `Speak roughly to your little boy,\par
          And beat him when he sneezes:\par
        He only does it to annoy,\par
          Because he knows it teases.'\par
\par
                    CHORUS.\par
\par
    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--\par
\par
                `Wow! wow! wow!'\par
\par
  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept\par
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing\par
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--\par
\par
        `I speak severely to my boy,\par
          I beat him when he sneezes;\par
        For he can thoroughly enjoy\par
          The pepper when he pleases!'\par
\par
                    CHORUS.\par
\par
                `Wow! wow! wow!'\par
\par
  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said\par
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and\par
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of\par
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,\par
but it just missed her.\par
\par
  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-\par
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all\par
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor\par
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,\par
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,\par
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much\par
as she could do to hold it.\par
\par
  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,\par
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep\par
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its\par
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I\par
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure\par
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it\par
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing\par
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't\par
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing\par
yourself.'\par
\par
  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into\par
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no\par
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout\par
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for\par
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at\par
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked\par
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.\par
\par
  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,\par
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do\par
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or\par
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for\par
some while in silence.\par
\par
  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I\par
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted\par
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some\par
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was\par
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be\par
quite absurd for her to carry it further.\par
\par
  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to\par
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'\par
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:\par
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began\par
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as\par
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right\par
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing\par
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.\par
\par
  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-\par
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great\par
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.\par
\par
  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at\par
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only\par
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought\par
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I\par
ought to go from here?'\par
\par
  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said\par
the Cat.\par
\par
  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.\par
\par
  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.\par
\par
  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk\par
long enough.'\par
\par
  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another\par
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'\par
\par
  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,\par
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,\par
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'\par
\par
  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.\par
\par
  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.\par
I'm mad.  You're mad.'\par
\par
  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'\par
\par
  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on\par
`And how do you know that you're mad?'\par
\par
  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant\par
that?'\par
\par
  `I suppose so,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's\par
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm\par
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'\par
\par
  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet\par
with the Queen to-day?'\par
\par
  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been\par
invited yet.'\par
\par
  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.\par
\par
  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used\par
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place\par
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.\par
\par
  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd\par
nearly forgotten to ask.'\par
\par
  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had\par
come back in a natural way.\par
\par
  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.\par
\par
  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it\par
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the\par
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen\par
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be\par
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be\par
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said\par
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a\par
branch of a tree.\par
\par
  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.\par
\par
  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep\par
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'\par
\par
  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,\par
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin,\par
which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.\par
\par
  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;\par
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever\par
saw in my life!'\par
\par
  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the\par
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,\par
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was\par
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not\par
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand\par
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even\par
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself\par
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd\par
gone to see the Hatter instead!'\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER VII\par
\par
                         A Mad Tea-Party\par
\par
\par
  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,\par
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a\par
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two\par
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking\par
over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,' thought Alice;\par
`only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'\par
\par
  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded\par
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried\par
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said\par
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one\par
end of the table.\par
\par
  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.\par
\par
  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it\par
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.\par
\par
  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice\par
angrily.\par
\par
  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being\par
invited,' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a\par
great many more than three.'\par
\par
  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been\par
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was\par
his first speech.\par
\par
  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said\par
with some severity; `it's very rude.'\par
\par
  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all\par
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'\par
\par
  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad\par
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she\par
added aloud.\par
\par
  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'\par
said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `Exactly so,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.\par
\par
  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what\par
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'\par
\par
  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just\par
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat\par
what I see"!'\par
\par
  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I\par
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'\par
\par
  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to\par
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the\par
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'\par
\par
  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the\par
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,\par
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and\par
writing-desks, which wasn't much.\par
\par
  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of\par
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his\par
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking\par
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.\par
\par
  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'\par
\par
  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter\par
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March\par
Hare.\par
\par
  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.\par
\par
  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter\par
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'\par
\par
  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then\par
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he\par
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It\par
was the BEST butter, you know.'\par
\par
  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.\par
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the\par
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'\par
\par
  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell\par
you what year it is?'\par
\par
  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's\par
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'\par
\par
  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to\par
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.\par
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she\par
could.\par
\par
  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured\par
a little hot tea upon its nose.\par
\par
  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without\par
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to\par
remark myself.'\par
\par
  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to\par
Alice again.\par
\par
  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'\par
\par
  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better\par
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that\par
have no answers.'\par
\par
  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you\par
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'\par
\par
  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head\par
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'\par
\par
  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to\par
beat time when I learn music.'\par
\par
  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand\par
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do\par
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose\par
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:\par
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the\par
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'\par
\par
  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a\par
whisper.)\par
\par
  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:\par
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'\par
\par
  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep\par
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'\par
\par
  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.\par
\par
  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.\par
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'\par
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the\par
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing\par
\par
            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!\par
            How I wonder what you're at!"\par
\par
You know the song, perhaps?'\par
\par
  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--\par
\par
            "Up above the world you fly,\par
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.\par
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'\par
\par
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep\par
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that\par
they had to pinch it to make it stop.\par
\par
  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,\par
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the\par
time!  Off with his head!"'\par
\par
  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.\par
\par
  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,\par
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'\par
\par
  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so\par
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.\par
\par
  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always\par
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'\par
\par
  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'\par
\par
  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice\par
ventured to ask.\par
\par
  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,\par
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady\par
tells us a story.'\par
\par
  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at\par
the proposal.\par
\par
  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,\par
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.\par
\par
  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he\par
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows\par
were saying.'\par
\par
  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.\par
\par
  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep\par
again before it's done.'\par
\par
  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the\par
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,\par
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'\par
\par
  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great\par
interest in questions of eating and drinking.\par
\par
  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a\par
minute or two.\par
\par
  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently\par
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'\par
\par
  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'\par
\par
  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways\par
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went\par
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'\par
\par
  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very\par
earnestly.\par
\par
  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so\par
I can't take more.'\par
\par
  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very\par
easy to take MORE than nothing.'\par
\par
  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked\par
triumphantly.\par
\par
  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped\par
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the\par
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the\par
bottom of a well?'\par
\par
  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and\par
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'\par
\par
  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but\par
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse\par
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the\par
story for yourself.'\par
\par
  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt\par
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'\par
\par
  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he\par
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they\par
were learning to draw, you know--'\par
\par
  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.\par
\par
  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this\par
time.\par
\par
  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move\par
one place on.'\par
\par
  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the\par
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather\par
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the\par
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a\par
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset\par
the milk-jug into his plate.\par
\par
  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began\par
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw\par
the treacle from?'\par
\par
  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so\par
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,\par
stupid?'\par
\par
  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not\par
choosing to notice this last remark.\par
\par
  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'\par
\par
  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse\par
go on for some time without interrupting it.\par
\par
  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and\par
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew\par
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'\par
\par
  `Why with an M?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Why not?' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  Alice was silent.\par
\par
  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going\par
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up\par
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an\par
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--\par
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever\par
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'\par
\par
  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I\par
don't think--'\par
\par
  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got\par
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep\par
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her\par
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that\par
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were\par
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.\par
\par
  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she\par
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I\par
ever was at in all my life!'\par
\par
  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a\par
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.\par
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at once.'\par
And in she went.\par
\par
  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the\par
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,'\par
she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key,\par
and unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went\par
to work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it\par
in her pocket) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down\par
the little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the\par
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.\par
\par
\par
\par
                          CHAPTER VIII\par
\par
                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground\par
\par
\par
  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the\par
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at\par
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious\par
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up\par
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go\par
splashing paint over me like that!'\par
\par
  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged\par
my elbow.'\par
\par
  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always\par
lay the blame on others!'\par
\par
  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only\par
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'\par
\par
  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.\par
\par
  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.\par
\par
  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it\par
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'\par
\par
  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all\par
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as\par
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the\par
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.\par
\par
  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are\par
painting those roses?'\par
\par
  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a\par
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to\par
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;\par
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads\par
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore\par
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously\par
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'\par
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon\par
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice\par
looked round, eager to see the Queen.\par
\par
  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped\par
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and\par
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were\par
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the\par
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were\par
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand\par
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next\par
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice\par
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous\par
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without\par
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the\par
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this\par
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.\par
\par
  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on\par
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember\par
ever having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,\par
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people\par
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see it?'\par
So she stood still where she was, and waited.\par
\par
  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped\par
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'\par
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.\par
\par
  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,\par
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'\par
\par
  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very\par
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of\par
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'\par
\par
  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three\par
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as\par
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs\par
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether\par
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her\par
own children.\par
\par
  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.\par
`It's no business of MINE.'\par
\par
  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her\par
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!\par
Off--'\par
\par
  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the\par
Queen was silent.\par
\par
  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said\par
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'\par
\par
  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave\par
`Turn them over!'\par
\par
  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.\par
\par
  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the\par
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the\par
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.\par
\par
  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'\par
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you\par
been doing here?'\par
\par
  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,\par
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'\par
\par
  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the\par
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,\par
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate\par
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.\par
\par
  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a\par
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered\par
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly\par
marched off after the others.\par
\par
  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.\par
\par
  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers\par
shouted in reply.\par
\par
  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'\par
\par
  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question\par
was evidently meant for her.\par
\par
  `Yes!' shouted Alice.\par
\par
  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the\par
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.\par
\par
  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.\par
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously\par
into her face.\par
\par
  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'\par
\par
  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He\par
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised\par
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and\par
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'\par
\par
  `What for?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.\par
\par
  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.\par
I said "What for?"'\par
\par
  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a\par
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a\par
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came\par
rather late, and the Queen said--'\par
\par
  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,\par
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up\par
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or\par
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a\par
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and\par
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live\par
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to\par
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.\par
\par
  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her\par
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,\par
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,\par
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened\par
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it\par
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a\par
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:\par
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,\par
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled\par
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,\par
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she\par
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers\par
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the\par
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very\par
difficult game indeed.\par
\par
  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,\par
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in\par
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went\par
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with\par
her head!' about once in a minute.\par
\par
  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as\par
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might\par
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of\par
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great\par
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'\par
\par
  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering\par
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a\par
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at\par
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to\par
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I\par
shall have somebody to talk to.'\par
\par
  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was\par
mouth enough for it to speak with.\par
\par
  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no\par
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at\par
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,\par
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the\par
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The\par
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and\par
no more of it appeared.\par
\par
  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather\par
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't\par
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in\par
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and\par
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;\par
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next\par
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have\par
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it\par
saw mine coming!'\par
\par
  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.\par
\par
  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then\par
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so\par
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while\par
finishing the game.'\par
\par
  The Queen smiled and passed on.\par
\par
  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and\par
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.\par
\par
  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me\par
to introduce it.'\par
\par
  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:\par
`however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.'\par
\par
  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.\par
\par
  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me\par
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.\par
\par
  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in\par
some book, but I don't remember where.'\par
\par
  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and\par
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I\par
wish you would have this cat removed!'\par
\par
  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great\par
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking\par
round.\par
\par
  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and\par
he hurried off.\par
\par
  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game\par
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,\par
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three\par
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and\par
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in\par
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or\par
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.\par
\par
  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,\par
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one\par
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her\par
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where\par
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up\par
into a tree.\par
\par
  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,\par
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:\par
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches\par
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away\par
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for\par
a little more conversation with her friend.\par
\par
  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to\par
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute\par
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who\par
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,\par
and looked very uncomfortable.\par
\par
  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to\par
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,\par
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed\par
to make out exactly what they said.\par
\par
  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a\par
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had\par
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin\par
at HIS time of life.\par
\par
  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be\par
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.\par
\par
  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about\par
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.\par
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so\par
grave and anxious.)\par
\par
  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the\par
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'\par
\par
  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch\par
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.\par
\par
   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,\par
by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely\par
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down\par
looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER IX\par
\par
                     The Mock Turtle's Story\par
\par
\par
  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old\par
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately\par
into Alice's, and they walked off together.\par
\par
  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and\par
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had\par
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.\par
\par
  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very\par
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT\par
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that\par
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at\par
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them\par
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar\par
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish\par
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you\par
know--'\par
\par
  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a\par
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.\par
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you\par
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that\par
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'\par
\par
  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.\par
\par
  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a\par
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up\par
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.\par
\par
  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,\par
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was\par
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,\par
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not\par
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.\par
\par
  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of\par
keeping up the conversation a little.\par
\par
  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,\par
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'\par
\par
  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody\par
minding their own business!'\par
\par
  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,\par
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,\par
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the\par
sounds will take care of themselves."'\par
\par
  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to\par
herself.\par
\par
  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your\par
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm\par
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the\par
experiment?'\par
\par
  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all\par
anxious to have the experiment tried.\par
\par
  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both\par
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock\par
together."'\par
\par
  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.\par
\par
  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you\par
have of putting things!'\par
\par
  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree\par
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near\par
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the\par
less there is of yours."'\par
\par
  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this\par
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it\par
is.'\par
\par
  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of\par
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put\par
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than\par
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have\par
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared\par
to them to be otherwise."'\par
\par
  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very\par
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it\par
as you say it.'\par
\par
  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess\par
replied, in a pleased tone.\par
\par
  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'\par
said Alice.\par
\par
  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you\par
a present of everything I've said as yet.'\par
\par
  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't\par
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to\par
say it out loud.\par
\par
  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her\par
sharp little chin.\par
\par
  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was\par
beginning to feel a little worried.\par
\par
  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to fly;\par
and the m--'\par
\par
  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died\par
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the\par
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,\par
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,\par
frowning like a thunderstorm.\par
\par
  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak\par
voice.\par
\par
  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on\par
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,\par
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'\par
\par
  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.\par
\par
  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice\par
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her\par
back to the croquet-ground.\par
\par
  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,\par
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,\par
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a\par
moment's delay would cost them their lives.\par
\par
  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off\par
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his\par
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were\par
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave\par
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour\par
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the\par
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of\par
execution.\par
\par
  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to\par
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'\par
\par
  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'\par
\par
  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.\par
\par
  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his\par
history,'\par
\par
  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low\par
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,\par
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite\par
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.\par
\par
  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the\par
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)\par
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to\par
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and\par
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,\par
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like\par
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would\par
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage\par
Queen:  so she waited.\par
\par
  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the\par
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'\par
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.\par
\par
  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they\par
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'\par
\par
  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went\par
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,\par
never!'\par
\par
  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the\par
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,\par
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart\par
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she\par
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the\par
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got\par
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'\par
\par
  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with\par
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.\par
\par
  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to\par
know your history, she do.'\par
\par
  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow\par
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've\par
finished.'\par
\par
  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice\par
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he\par
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.\par
\par
  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was\par
a real Turtle.'\par
\par
  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only\par
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and\par
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very\par
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your\par
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be\par
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.\par
\par
  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more\par
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to\par
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call\par
him Tortoise--'\par
\par
  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.\par
\par
  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock\par
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'\par
\par
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple\par
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and\par
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At\par
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!\par
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:\par
\par
  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe\par
it--'\par
\par
  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.\par
\par
  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak\par
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.\par
\par
  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school\par
every day--'\par
\par
  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be\par
so proud as all that.'\par
\par
  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.\par
\par
  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'\par
\par
  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.\par
\par
  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock\par
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the\par
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'\par
\par
  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the\par
bottom of the sea.'\par
\par
  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a\par
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'\par
\par
  `What was that?' inquired Alice.\par
\par
  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock\par
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--\par
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'\par
\par
  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What is it?'\par
\par
  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never\par
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify is,\par
I suppose?'\par
\par
  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--prettier.'\par
\par
  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to\par
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'\par
\par
  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about\par
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you\par
to learn?'\par
\par
  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting\par
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,\par
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old\par
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us\par
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'\par
\par
  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm\par
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'\par
\par
  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics\par
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'\par
\par
  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he\par
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'\par
\par
  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;\par
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.\par
\par
  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a\par
hurry to change the subject.\par
\par
  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the\par
next, and so on.'\par
\par
  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.\par
\par
  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon\par
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'\par
\par
  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a\par
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day\par
must have been a holiday?'\par
\par
  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.\par
\par
  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a\par
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'\par
\par
\par
\par
                            CHAPTER X\par
\par
                      The Lobster Quadrille\par
\par
\par
  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper\par
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for\par
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone\par
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him\par
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered\par
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on\par
again:--\par
\par
  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,' said Alice)--\par
`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'\par
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,\par
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful\par
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'\par
\par
  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'\par
\par
  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the sea-shore--'\par
\par
  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;\par
then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--'\par
\par
  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `--you advance twice--'\par
\par
  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to\par
partners--'\par
\par
  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the\par
Gryphon.\par
\par
  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'\par
\par
  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.\par
\par
  `--as far out to sea as you can--'\par
\par
  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,\par
capering wildly about.\par
\par
  `Change lobsters again!' yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.\par
\par
  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the\par
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,\par
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat\par
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.\par
\par
  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.\par
\par
  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the\par
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall\par
sing?'\par
\par
  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'\par
\par
  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now\par
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and\par
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle\par
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--\par
\par
\par
`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.\par
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my\par
 tail.\par
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!\par
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the\par
dance?\par
\par
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the\par
dance?\par
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the\par
dance?\par
\par
\par
"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be\par
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to\par
                                                      sea!"\par
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look\par
                                                       askance--\par
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the\par
   dance.\par
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join\par
        the dance.\par
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join\par
        the dance.\par
\par
`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.\par
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.\par
The further off from England the nearer is to France--\par
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.\par
\par
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the\par
         dance?\par
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the\par
         dance?"'\par
\par
\par
\par
  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said\par
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so\par
like that curious song about the whiting!'\par
\par
  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've\par
seen them, of course?'\par
\par
  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she\par
checked herself hastily.\par
\par
  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but\par
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're\par
like.'\par
\par
  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their\par
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'\par
\par
  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:\par
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails\par
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle\par
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all\par
that,' he said to the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with\par
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So\par
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in\par
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'\par
\par
  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew\par
so much about a whiting before.'\par
\par
  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the\par
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'\par
\par
  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'\par
\par
  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very\par
solemnly.\par
\par
  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she\par
repeated in a wondering tone.\par
\par
  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I\par
mean, what makes them so shiny?'\par
\par
  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she\par
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'\par
\par
  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep\par
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'\par
\par
  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great\par
curiosity.\par
\par
  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather\par
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'\par
\par
  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were\par
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep\par
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'\par
\par
  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle\par
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'\par
\par
  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.\par
\par
  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came\par
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With\par
what porpoise?"'\par
\par
  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.\par
\par
  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended\par
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR\par
adventures.'\par
\par
  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'\par
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to\par
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'\par
\par
  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an\par
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'\par
\par
  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when\par
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about\par
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on\par
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she\par
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly\par
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,\par
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming\par
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said\par
`That's very curious.'\par
\par
  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated\par
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat\par
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as\par
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.\par
\par
  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said\par
the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat\par
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'\par
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so\par
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was\par
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--\par
\par
    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,\par
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."\par
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose\par
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'\par
\par
              [later editions continued as follows\par
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,\par
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,\par
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,\par
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]\par
\par
  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'\par
said the Gryphon.\par
\par
  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it\par
sounds uncommon nonsense.'\par
\par
  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her\par
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way\par
again.\par
\par
  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with\par
the next verse.'\par
\par
  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD\par
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'\par
\par
  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was\par
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the\par
subject.\par
\par
  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:\par
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'\par
\par
  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would\par
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--\par
\par
    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,\par
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'\par
\par
        [later editions continued as follows\par
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,\par
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.\par
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,\par
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:\par
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,\par
    And concluded the banquet--]\par
\par
  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle\par
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far\par
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'\par
\par
  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and\par
Alice was only too glad to do so.\par
\par
  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the\par
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you\par
a song?'\par
\par
  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'\par
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather\par
offended tone, `Hm!  No accounting for tastes!  Sing her\par
"Turtle Soup," will you, old fellow?'\par
\par
  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes\par
choked with sobs, to sing this:--\par
\par
\par
    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,\par
    Waiting in a hot tureen!\par
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?\par
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!\par
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!\par
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!\par
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!\par
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,\par
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!\par
\par
    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,\par
    Game, or any other dish?\par
    Who would not give all else for two\par
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?\par
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?\par
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!\par
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!\par
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,\par
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'\par
\par
  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had\par
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'\par
was heard in the distance.\par
\par
  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,\par
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.\par
\par
  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon\par
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more\par
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the\par
melancholy words:--\par
\par
    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,\par
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER XI\par
\par
                      Who Stole the Tarts?\par
\par
\par
  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when\par
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts\par
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:\par
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on\par
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,\par
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the\par
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large\par
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice\par
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'\par
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed\par
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about\par
her, to pass away the time.\par
\par
  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had\par
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that\par
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the\par
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'\par
\par
  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown\par
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he\par
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly\par
not becoming.\par
\par
  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve\par
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because\par
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they\par
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over\par
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and\par
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the\par
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just\par
as well.\par
\par
  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.\par
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They\par
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'\par
\par
  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in\par
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the\par
trial.'\par
\par
  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but\par
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in\par
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked\par
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.\par
\par
  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their\par
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'\par
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them\par
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his\par
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in\par
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.\par
\par
  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,\par
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got\par
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it\par
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was\par
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of\par
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write\par
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very\par
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.\par
\par
  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.\par
\par
  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and\par
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--\par
\par
    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,\par
          All on a summer day:\par
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,\par
          And took them quite away!'\par
\par
  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.\par
\par
  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's\par
a great deal to come before that!'\par
\par
  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit\par
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First\par
witness!'\par
\par
  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in\par
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg\par
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I\par
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'\par
\par
  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you\par
begin?'\par
\par
  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into\par
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I\par
think it was,' he said.\par
\par
  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.\par
\par
  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury\par
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then\par
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.\par
\par
  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.\par
\par
  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who\par
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.\par
\par
  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;\par
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'\par
\par
  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the\par
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.\par
\par
  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or\par
I'll have you executed on the spot.'\par
\par
  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept\par
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the\par
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his\par
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.\par
\par
  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which\par
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was\par
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she\par
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she\par
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for\par
her.\par
\par
  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was\par
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'\par
\par
  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'\par
\par
  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.\par
\par
  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know\par
you're growing too.'\par
\par
  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:\par
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily\par
and crossed over to the other side of the court.\par
\par
  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the\par
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to\par
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the\par
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter\par
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.\par
\par
  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have\par
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'\par
\par
  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a\par
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week\par
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and\par
the twinkling of the tea--'\par
\par
  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.\par
\par
  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.\par
\par
  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.\par
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'\par
\par
  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things\par
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'\par
\par
  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.\par
\par
  `You did!' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.\par
\par
  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'\par
\par
  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,\par
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the\par
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.\par
\par
  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-\par
and-butter--'\par
\par
  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.\par
\par
  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.\par
\par
  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you\par
executed.'\par
\par
  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,\par
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he\par
began.\par
\par
  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.\par
\par
  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately\par
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a\par
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had\par
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:\par
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat\par
upon it.)\par
\par
  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often\par
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some\par
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the\par
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant\par
till now.'\par
\par
  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'\par
continued the King.\par
\par
  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as\par
it is.'\par
\par
  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.\par
\par
  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.\par
\par
  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we\par
shall get on better.'\par
\par
  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious\par
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.\par
\par
  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the\par
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.\par
\par
  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one\par
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the\par
officer could get to the door.\par
\par
  `Call the next witness!' said the King.\par
\par
  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the\par
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before\par
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began\par
sneezing all at once.\par
\par
  `Give your evidence,' said the King.\par
\par
  `Shan't,' said the cook.\par
\par
  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a\par
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'\par
\par
  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy\par
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till\par
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What\par
are tarts made of?'\par
\par
  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.\par
\par
  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.\par
\par
  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that\par
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch\par
him!  Off with his whiskers!'\par
\par
  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the\par
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down\par
again, the cook had disappeared.\par
\par
  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.\par
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the\par
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.\par
It quite makes my forehead ache!'\par
\par
  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,\par
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,\par
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.\par
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top\par
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'\par
\par
\par
\par
                           CHAPTER XII\par
\par
                        Alice's Evidence\par
\par
\par
  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the\par
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she\par
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with\par
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads\par
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding\par
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset\par
the week before.\par
\par
  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great\par
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,\par
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and\par
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once\par
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.\par
\par
  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave\par
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--\par
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as\par
he said do.\par
\par
  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she\par
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing\par
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable\par
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that\par
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it\par
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'\par
\par
  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of\par
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and\par
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write\par
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed\par
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,\par
gazing up into the roof of the court.\par
\par
  `What do you know about this business?' the King said to\par
Alice.\par
\par
  `Nothing,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.\par
\par
  `Nothing whatever,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.\par
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when\par
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,\par
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and\par
making faces at him as he spoke.\par
\par
  `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and\par
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--\par
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word\par
sounded best.\par
\par
  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some\par
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to\par
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she\par
thought to herself.\par
\par
  At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily\par
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out\par
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE\par
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'\par
\par
  Everybody looked at Alice.\par
\par
  `I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.\par
\par
  `You are,' said the King.\par
\par
  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.\par
\par
  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,\par
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'\par
\par
  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.\par
\par
  `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.\par
\par
  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.\par
`Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling\par
voice.\par
\par
  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said\par
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has\par
just been picked up.'\par
\par
  `What's in it?' said the Queen.\par
\par
  `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems\par
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'\par
\par
  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was\par
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'\par
\par
  `Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.\par
\par
  `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,\par
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper\par
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set\par
of verses.'\par
\par
  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of\par
the jurymen.\par
\par
  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the\par
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)\par
\par
  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.\par
(The jury all brightened up again.)\par
\par
  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and\par
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'\par
\par
  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the\par
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd\par
have signed your name like an honest man.'\par
\par
  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the\par
first really clever thing the King had said that day.\par
\par
  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.\par
\par
  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't\par
even know what they're about!'\par
\par
  `Read them,' said the King.\par
\par
  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,\par
please your Majesty?' he asked.\par
\par
  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on\par
till you come to the end:  then stop.'\par
\par
  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--\par
\par
        `They told me you had been to her,\par
          And mentioned me to him:\par
        She gave me a good character,\par
          But said I could not swim.\par
\par
        He sent them word I had not gone\par
          (We know it to be true):\par
        If she should push the matter on,\par
          What would become of you?\par
\par
        I gave her one, they gave him two,\par
          You gave us three or more;\par
        They all returned from him to you,\par
          Though they were mine before.\par
\par
        If I or she should chance to be\par
          Involved in this affair,\par
        He trusts to you to set them free,\par
          Exactly as we were.\par
\par
        My notion was that you had been\par
          (Before she had this fit)\par
        An obstacle that came between\par
          Him, and ourselves, and it.\par
\par
        Don't let him know she liked them best,\par
          For this must ever be\par
        A secret, kept from all the rest,\par
          Between yourself and me.'\par
\par
  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'\par
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'\par
\par
  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had\par
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit\par
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't\par
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'\par
\par
  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe\par
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to\par
explain the paper.\par
\par
  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a\par
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And\par
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his\par
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some\par
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you\par
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.\par
\par
  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.\par
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)\par
\par
  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering\par
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's\par
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,\par
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'\par
\par
  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said\par
Alice.\par
\par
  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to\par
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.\par
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my\par
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.\par
\par
  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the\par
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off\par
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no\par
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was\par
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)\par
\par
  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round\par
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.\par
\par
  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and\par
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the\par
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.\par
\par
  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'\par
\par
  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having\par
the sentence first!'\par
\par
  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.\par
\par
  `I won't!' said Alice.\par
\par
  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.\par
Nobody moved.\par
\par
  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full\par
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'\par
\par
  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying\par
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half\par
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on\par
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently\par
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the\par
trees upon her face.\par
\par
  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long\par
sleep you've had!'\par
\par
  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told\par
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange\par
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and\par
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a\par
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's\par
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she\par
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.\par
\par
  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her\par
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of\par
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began\par
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--\par
\par
  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the\par
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes\par
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her\par
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back\par
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and\par
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place\par
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little\par
sister's dream.\par
\par
  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried\par
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the\par
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as\par
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,\par
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate\par
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the\par
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once\par
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's\par
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,\par
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable\par
Mock Turtle.\par
\par
  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in\par
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and\par
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only\par
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the\par
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-\par
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd\par
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and\par
all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the\par
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the\par
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's\par
heavy sobs.\par
\par
  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of\par
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how\par
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and\par
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about\par
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager\par
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of\par
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their\par
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,\par
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.\par
\par
                             THE END\par
}
 